---
---

## The Integrated Ph.D. Programme

See also: [The _Ph.D._ Programme]({{site.baseurl}}/degprog-phd)

The Department of Mathematics, through its Integrated Ph.D. programme, offers
exciting opportunities to talented students holding a Bachelor's degree for
acquiring a rigorous and modern education in mathematics, and for pursuing
research in both pure and applied mathematics.

Admission to the Integrated Ph.D. (Int. Ph.D.) Programme in the Mathematical
Sciences is through the Joint Admission Test for M.Sc. (JAM) followed by an
interview (of those candidates who are short-listed) at IISc.

Click here and follow the link that says Information Brochure for the syllabi
for the relevant JAM examinations

SEVERAL CHANGES HAVE OCCURRED in the admissions process to the Int. Ph.D.
programme in the Mathematical Sciences at IISc. Please read what follows
CAREFULLY!/p>

Eligibility


* PLEASE NOTE: You will not see the Int. Ph.D. programme in the Mathematical
  Sciences listed in any of the eligibility-criteria tables in any of the
  documents posted at the JAM 2016 website! Instead please read the following
  points.

* Aspirants for the Int. Ph.D. in the Mathematical Sciences must write the JAM
  2016 examination. However, an aspirant who has qualified in JAM 2016 will
  need to apply separately to IISc through our admissions portal (see below).
  Additionally, THE NEXT THREE POINTS SHALL BE THE ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS for
  the Int. Ph.D. in the Mathematical Sciences.

* First Class or equivalent grade in:

  o B.Sc. or equivalent degree with Mathematics as one of the subjects (this
    includes the B.Stat. degree, and a B.A. degree with Mathematics as one of
    the subjects); OR
  o B.E./B.Tech. or equivalent degree

* Please note that candidates with higher qualifications are not eligible.

* Candidates can appear for either the Mathematics (MA) or the Mathematical
  Statistics (MS) JAM paper.

*  A short-list of candidates who have applied to the IISc, and determined by
  the JAM 2016 score, will be drawn up. The short-listed candidates will be
  invited for an interview at IISc. The interview short-list and any subsequent
  offer of admission will be totally independent of the candidate's preferences
  (for any other programmes) made via JAM 2016.

Candidates who are yet to complete their examinations for the eligible degree
and expect to complete all the requirements for their degree (including all
examinations, project dissertations, viva voce, etc.) before July 31, 2016, are
eligible to apply.

How to Apply

Please refer to the following web page for further information on the JAM 2016
application process: http://jam.iitm.ac.in/jam2016/
As regards the separate application to IISc: The IISc online portal for 2016
admissions is NOW OPEN. Visit this_page for information and instructions on how
to access the online admission portal.

Important Dates


Dates pertaining to JAM 2016               See http://jam.iitm.ac.in/jam2016/
Deadline for submitting IISc application   March 21, 2016
Interviews at IISc                         To be announced


Courses

Students admitted to the Integrated Ph.D. programme need to complete 57 credits
of course work (typically, a course is worth 3 credits) and 7 credits of
project work by the end of the fourth semester of their joining the programme.
(View the webpage Courses for more information.)
