---
speaker: Mukesh Kumar Nagar (Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh)
title: "Colloquium: GTS Poset and Laplacian Immanants of Trees"
date: 14 Nov, 2022
time: 4 pm
venue: Microsoft Teams (Online)
website: 
---

A poset denoted $\mathsf{GTS}\_n$ on the set of unlabeled trees with $n$
vertices was defined by Csikv&agrave;ri. He showed that several tree
parameters are monotonic as one goes up this $\mathsf{GTS}\_n$ poset. Let
$T$ be a tree on $n$ vertices and let $\mathcal{L}\_q^T$ be the
$q$-analogue of its Laplacian. For all $q\in \mathbb{R}$, I will discuss
monotonicity of the largest and the smallest eigenvalues of
$\mathcal{L}\_q^T$ along the $\mathsf{GTS}\_n$ poset.

For a partition $\lambda \vdash n$, let the normalized immanant of
$\mathcal{L}\_q^T$ indexed by $\lambda$ be denoted as
$\overline{\mathrm{Imm}}\_{\lambda}(\mathcal{L}\_q^T)$.  Monotonicity of
$\overline{\mathrm{Imm}}\_{\lambda}(\mathcal{L}\_q^T)$ will  be discussed
when we go up along $\mathsf{GTS}\_n$ or when we change the size of the
first row in the hook partition $(\lambda=k,1^{n-k})$ and the two row
partition $\lambda=(n-k,k)$. We will also discuss monotocity of each
coefficients in the $q$-Laplacian immanantal polynomials
$\overline{\mathrm{Imm}}\_{\lambda}(xI-\mathcal{L}\_q^T)$ when we go up
along $\mathsf{GTS}\_n$. At the end of this talk, I will discuss our
ongoing research projects and future plans.

This is a joint work with Prof. A. K. Lal (IITK)  and Prof. S.
Sivaramakrishnan (IITB).

