---
date: 2008-8-4
speaker: "Dr. K. B. Athreya Iowa State University"
title: "Preferential Attachment Random graphs with general weight function and general input sequence."
time: "4.00 p.m." 
time: "Lecture Hall - I, Dept. of Mathematics"
---
Consider a network of sites growing over time such that at step n
a newcomer chooses a vertex from the existing vertices with
probability proportional to a function of the degree of that
vertex, i.e., the number of other vertices that this vertex is
connected to. This is called a preferential attachment random
graph. The objects of interest are the growth rates for the
growth of the degree for each vertex with n and the behavior of
the empirical distribution of the degrees. In this talk we will
consider three cases: the weight function w(.) is superlinear,
linear, and sublinear. Using recently obtained limit theorems for
the growth rates of a pure birth continuous time Markov chains
and an embedding of the discrete time graph sequence in a
sequence of continuous time pure birth Markov chains, we
establish a number of results for all the three cases. We show
that the much discussed power law growth of the degrees and the
power law decay of the limiting degree distribution hold only in
the linear case, i.e., when w(.) is linear.We also discuss the
case of arbitrary input sequence.
